---
title: DA/CP - Grade Inflation & Nationalize
season: ld2019septoct
---

**Version History:**
* **v1**
* [v2](ld2019septoct-dacp-shift-nationalize-2)

**Rounds:**
* Yale Invitational JVLD R1 vs. Acton-Boxborough OH (Judge: Jeff Morris)
* Yale Invitational JVLD R3 vs. Lake Highland Prep YA (Judge: Emily White)
* Yale Invitational JVLD R6 vs. Hunter AL (Judge: Eric Tang)

## Framework
The role of the ballot should be to resist structural violence.

#### Structural violence occurs when the structure of our society oppresses others. Thus, we must educate ourselves to think critically about structural oppression.
Farmer et al ’06 - [https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1621099/](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1621099/) 
> Structural violence, a term coined by Johan Galtung and by liberation theologians during the 1960s, describes social structures—economic, political, legal, religious, and cultural—that stop individuals, groups, and societies from reaching their full potential [57]. In its general usage, the word violence often conveys a physical image; however, according to Galtung, it is the “avoidable impairment of fundamental human needs or…the impairment of human life, which lowers the actual degree to which someone is able to meet their needs below that which would otherwise be possible” [58]. Structural violence is often embedded in longstanding “ubiquitous social structures, normalized by stable institutions and regular experience” [59]. Because they seem so ordinary in our ways of understanding the world, they appear almost invisible. Disparate access to resources, political power, education, health care, and legal standing are just a few examples. The idea of structural violence is linked very closely to social injustice and the social machinery of oppression [16].

#### We must solve structural violence first because we cannot form a coherent moral code if we are excluding others from our moral sphere.
Winter & Leighton '01 - [http://sites.saumag.edu/danaleighton/wp-content/uploads/sites/11/2015/09/SVintro-2.pdf](http://sites.saumag.edu/danaleighton/wp-content/uploads/sites/11/2015/09/SVintro-2.pdf)
> Finally, to recognize the operation of structural violence forces us to ask questions about how and why we tolerate it, questions which often have painful answers for the privi- leged elite who unconsciously support it. A final question of this section is how and why we allow ourselves to be so oblivious to structural violence. Susan Opotow offers an intriguing set of answers, in her article Social Injustice. She argues that our normal perceptual/cognitive processes divide people into in-groups and out-groups. Those outside our group lie outside our scope of justice. Injustice that would be instantane- ously confronted if it occurred to someone we love or know is barely noticed if it occurs to strangers or those who are invisible or irrelevant. We do not seem to be able to open our minds and our hearts to everyone, so we draw conceptual lines between those who are in and out of our moral circle. Those who fall outside are morally excluded, and be- come either invisible, or demeaned in some way so that we do not have to acknowledge the injustice they suffer. Moral exclusion is a human failing, but Opotow argues con- vincingly that it is an outcome of everyday social cognition. To reduce its nefarious effects, we must be vigilant in noticing and listening to oppressed, invisible, outsiders. Inclusionary thinking can be fostered by relationships, communication, and apprecia- tion of diversity.

## Disad: Grade Inflation

#### College campuses are more diverse than ever
AAC&U 19 (Association of American Colleges & Universities, AAC&U News, March 2019 “College Students Are More Diverse Than Ever. Faculty and Administrators Are Not”, [https://www.aacu.org/aacu-news/newsletter/2019/march/facts-figures](https://www.aacu.org/aacu-news/newsletter/2019/march/facts-figures)) (Vikram)
> The student population in US ... the academy remain “predominantly white.”

#### When colleges don't have test scores, they weigh GPA heavily - test-optional colleges prove.
Simon 15 ((Cecilia Capuzzi Simon, Writer) “The Test-Optional Surge”, NYT, Oct. 28, 2015, [https://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/01/education/edlife/the-test-optional-surge.html](https://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/01/education/edlife/the-test-optional-surge.html)) (Vikram)
> Applying test-optional is not an ... not be working to potential.

#### Rampant GPA inflation favors rich, white kids over poor kids in urban districts
Marcus 17 ((Jon Marcus is the higher-education editor at The Hechinger Report.) “Why Suburban Schools Are Inflating Kids' Grades,” Atlantic, 8-16-2017, [https://www.theatlantic.com/education/archive/2017/08/suburban-grade-inflation/536595/](https://www.theatlantic.com/education/archive/2017/08/suburban-grade-inflation/536595/)) (Vikram)
> PITTSBURGH—Monet Spencer remembers traveling ... applicants whose GPAs are highest.

#### Abolishing the SAT doesn’t solve the underlying conditions behind the disparities. The SAT functions as an equalizer, even if it is flawed.
Deboer 18 ((Freddie Deboer, ) “The SAT Can Level the Playing Field in Education,” People’s Policy Project, 3-20-2018, [https://www.peoplespolicyproject.org/2018/03/20/the-sat-can-level-the-playing-field-in-education/](https://www.peoplespolicyproject.org/2018/03/20/the-sat-can-level-the-playing-field-in-education/)) (Vikram)
> The SAT does not enjoy ... way that should disturb us.

#### The result is *less* racial minorities and economically disadvantaged people at college– leads to cycles of poverty
Cunningham 17 ((Peter Cunningham is the founder of Education Post and serves on its board. He served as assistant secretary for communications and outreach in the U.S. Department of Education during the Obama administration. Prior to that he led communications for Chicago Public Schools) “Education Is the Surest Path Out of Poverty, Even If The Atlantic Reports Otherwise,” Education Post, 10-9-2017, [https://educationpost.org/education-is-the-surest-path-out-of-poverty-even-if-the-atlantic-reports-otherwise/](https://educationpost.org/education-is-the-surest-path-out-of-poverty-even-if-the-atlantic-reports-otherwise/)) (Vikram)
> For example, in 2012, The ... are excuses to evade accountability.

## Counterplan: The United States federal government ought to create a public system of nationalized standardized tests.
Such a standardized test would be administered universally and free-of-charge.

#### Current college admissions tests measure privilege instead of intellectual merit.
Viera ’18 - [https://www.teenvogue.com/story/the-history-of-the-sat-is-mired-in-racism-and-elitism](https://www.teenvogue.com/story/the-history-of-the-sat-is-mired-in-racism-and-elitism)
> Standardized tests are supposed to be neutral, value-free assessments of how hard students work. The more students study, the more seriously they take their education, the better they will perform on these tests. In high-stakes settings, standardized tests are used as primary determinants of student access to, or else denial of, resources, opportunities, and spaces. The Scholastic Assessment Test (SAT) is one such test. Ostensibly, the students who work hardest will earn higher scores, and those scores will give them an upper hand in the college admissions process. This particular narrative neatly aligns with the illusion of America’s meritocratic tradition: Those who work the hardest will reap the greatest benefits, never mind structural inequality. But studies have proven, time and again, that standardized tests are much better at revealing things like household income, race, and level of parental education than they are at predicting the success of students in college classrooms. In a deeply flawed and unequal educational system that has continuously failed its most vulnerable children and their communities, high-stakes standardized tests function to reinforce that same system. When we accept the myth that these tests are merit-based, we also accept the idea that race and class gaps in standardized-test results, which have remained essentially unchanged over the last 20 years, are due to individual and group shortcomings, not structural ones. Even if we accept the premise that the best way to create and sustain an ethical, justice-oriented educational system is by rewarding “high-achieving” students, the system remains deeply flawed. The tests themselves have a long history of favoring white, middle-class students by testing bodies of knowledge that are fundamentally white and middle-class; therefore, the tests reinforce the idea that white identity is the default American identity. In How the SAT Creates Built-in-Headwinds, Jay Rosner, a national admissions-test expert, explains a process that was used by SAT designers to decide which questions would be included on the test: “Compare two 1998 SAT verbal [section] sentence-completion items with similar themes: The item correctly answered by more blacks than whites was discarded by [the Educational Testing Service] (ETS), whereas the item that has a higher disparate impact against blacks became part of the actual SAT. On one of the items, which was of medium difficulty, 62% of whites and 38% of African-Americans answered correctly, resulting in a large impact of 24%...On this second item, 8% more African-Americans than whites answered correctly...” In essence, questions for future tests were deemed “good questions” if they replicated the outcomes of previous exams; specifically, tests where black and Latinx students scored lower than their white peers. Test-makers might argue that race was not explicitly used to determine which questions would be included, but the method used was inherently racist and biased toward knowledge held by white students. Beyond the issue of affirming whiteness as a marker of neutrality — as questions are deemed to be good when white students do well on them — the SAT is mired in a long history of racism, classism, and nativism. The story of the Scholastic Aptitude Test (now Scholastic Assessment Test) begins with [Army IQ tests] that were (https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/sats/where/three.html) developed during World War I. In 1917, a group of psychologists, led by then-president of the American Psychological Association (APA), Robert M. Yerkes, created the Army Alpha and Army Beta tests to measure the intelligence of recruits and help the Army identify those of “superior mental ability” and those who were “mentally inferior,” among other things. In 1923, Carl Brigham, one of the men who developed these intelligence tests, published A Study of American Intelligence. In it, he used data gathered from these IQ tests to argue the following: “The decline of American intelligence will be more rapid than the decline of the intelligence of European national groups, owing to the presence here of the negro. These are the plain, if somewhat ugly, facts that our study shows. The deterioration of American intelligence is not inevitable, however, if public action can be aroused to prevent it.” This was the era of Jim Crow, de jure segregation, and lynchings. Armed with the pseudoscience of these American psychologists, eugenicists promoted laws and movements for the preservation of “racial purity.” States began passing laws (later confirmed to be constitutional by a Supreme Court case that permitted the forced sterilization of people with “defective” traits, preventing them from “polluting” America’s ruling class. In an essay, titled “Hiding Behind High-stakes Testing: Meritocracy, Objectivity and Inequality in U.S. Education,” professor Wayne Au of the University of Washington Bothell wrote, “...the assumptive objectivity of standardized testing was thus used to ‘scientifically’ declare the poor, immigrants, women, and nonwhites in the U.S. as mentally inferior, and to justify educational systems that mainly reproduced extant socioeconomic inequalities.” Carl Brigham eventually used his experience with Army intelligence tests to create another standardized test, this time for the College Board]. Together, they restructured the Army intelligence tests and came up with the “Scholastic Aptitude Test,” which was administered to high school students for the first time in 1926.

#### This disregard towards students and bias towards the majority exists because they lack government oversight and are lobbying.
AETR '12 - [http://www.aetr.org/the-facts/political-lobbying/](http://www.aetr.org/the-facts/political-lobbying/)
> The Big 3 spend hundreds of thousands of dollars every year on political lobbying designed to strengthen their monopolies. Each of them admits to the IRS that their huge expenditures were designed "to influence national, state, or local legislation, includ[ing] any attempt to influence public opinion on a legislative matter or referendum." Almost all of the money is spent "to influence a legislative body (direct lobbying)." As it turns out, most of these lobbying expenditures are made to solidify their existing monopoly positions and even generate new ones. In the past, they have even lobbied to maintain their unethical "guinea pig testing" policies, where test-takers are forced to participate in difficult research programs in the middle of their actual exams. Direct lobbying is one of the ugliest features of American government. Time and again, it has allowed corporations to pay legislators and government officials for favors and preferential treatment. For the Big 3, the only difference is that they are a step ahead of the private sector; they are already government-endorsed monoplies whose customers are required (by universities, school districts, etc.) to purchase their products. They don't need to be influencing legislators with their monopoly earnings. The Big 3 are engaged in precisely the kind of political manipulation America doesn't need, and to the tune of millions of dollars. They should be prohibited from further lobbying of any sort.

#### To fix this, we must dismantle the College Board and other private standardized tests. Instead, we must move standardized tests from private to public ownership. Singapore, the top country on the OECD's PISA index, proves that government control provides a fair and effective system.
Hogan '14 - [https://theconversation.com/why-is-singapores-school-system-so-successful-and-is-it-a-model-for-the-west-22917](https://theconversation.com/why-is-singapores-school-system-so-successful-and-is-it-a-model-for-the-west-22917)
> So Singapore’s teaching regime is one primarily focused on the transmission of conventional curriculum knowledge and examination performance. And clearly it is highly-effective, helping to generate outstanding results in international assessments Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS) and the OECD’s Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA). Singapore’s education system is the product of a distinctive, even unique, set of historical, institutional and cultural influences. These factors go a long way to help explain why the educational system is especially effective in the current assessment environment, but it also limits how transferable it is to other countries. Over time, Singapore has developed a powerful set of institutional arrangements that shape its instructional regime. Singapore has developed an education system which is centralised (despite significant decentralisation of authority in recent years), integrated, coherent and well-funded. It is also relatively flexible and expert-led. In addition, Singapore’s institutional arrangements is characterised by a prescribed national curriculum. National high stakes examinations at the end of primary and secondary schooling stream students according to their exam performance and, crucially, prompt teachers to emphasise coverage of the curriculum and teaching to the test. The alignment of curriculum, assessment and instruction is exceptionally strong. 

#### Administering admissions tests universally and free-of-charge solves the aff.
Dynarski, Susan. "Simple Way To Help Low-Income Students: Make Everyone Take SAT Or ACT." The New York Times. July 14, 2017. Web. August 17, 2019. [https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/14/upshot/how-universal-college-admission-tests-help-low-income-students.html](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/14/upshot/how-universal-college-admission-tests-help-low-income-students.html)
> There is widespread concern about over-testing in schools. Yet we need all students to take the right tests if low-income and minority children are to have a good shot at a quality college education. The two standard college admission tests — the SAT and the ACT — could be administered universally and free of charge to students. That would reduce the administrative barriers to applying to college, help identify talented disadvantaged children, and increase the likelihood that they will attend a college that matches their skills. 

## Underview: Policy Making First
The role of the ballot ought to be to vote for the side which best provides a path for debaters to act as policy makers.

[analytic]

Three warrants:
1. [analytic]
2. [analytic]
3. [analytic]
    
    Education is bound to be a major voting issue in the 2020 primaries. Six warrants:
    
    Harris '19 - [https://www.brookings.edu/blog/brown-center-chalkboard/2019/06/03/8-reasons-why-education-may-be-pivotal-in-the-2020-election-and-beyond/](https://www.brookings.edu/blog/brown-center-chalkboard/2019/06/03/8-reasons-why-education-may-be-pivotal-in-the-2020-election-and-beyond/)
   > Among politicos, education is not usually considered a top-tier issue in presidential elections. The issue tends to get overshadowed by other issues where the president is the obvious leader and decisionmaker—defense, security, climate change, health care, Social Security, and economic affairs. Education, in contrast, has been seen as a state and local issue. But times have changed, especially when it comes to Democratic primaries. It is worth starting with a brief recap of the recent federal role in K-12 education. President George W. Bush’s No Child Left Behind (NCLB) law in 2001 represented an unprecedented increase in the federal role in K-12 education at the time. President Barack Obama increased the federal role even more—introducing $100 billion in federal education spending (prompted by the financial crisis) and leveraging NCLB to make deals with states that allowed the U.S. Department of Education, through a waiver process, to pressure states to adopt the Obama administration’s preferred accountability-driven policies without getting congressional approval. Indirectly, this gave the federal government a hand in academic standards, which had been previously left to the states, and in teacher evaluation, which few governments, at any level, had ever really tried to touch. $100 billion in federal education spending (prompted by the financial crisis) and leveraging NCLB to make deals with states that allowed the U.S. Department of Education, through a waiver process, to pressure states to adopt the Obama administration’s preferred accountability-driven policies without getting congressional approval. Indirectly, this gave the federal government a hand in academic standards, which had been previously left to the states, and in teacher evaluation, which few governments, at any level, had ever really tried to touch. Republicans saw this as executive overreach and Democrats became more disenchanted with the policies themselves, especially their focus on high-stakes testing. This led to the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA), which pulled federal law back to something closer to, and a bit less aggressive than, the original NCLB (but still more active than the pre-NCLB era). Many long-term members of Congress even recanted their original support for NCLB and their support for ESSA was meant to send just that message. Given the NCLB-ESSA story, one might think the federal role would fade as a political issue in presidential elections, but this has not happened. In fact, I argue that education might be more important than ever in the 2020 election and for years to come: 1. EDUCATION IS BECOMING MORE IMPORTANT IN DAILY LIFE In perception and reality, education is becoming more and more important to parents and the long-term life success of their children. It is also a key cog in the macroeconomy, with over $1 trillion in spending annually (mostly from public sources). These are the underlying forces that led to NCLB and the importance of education has only continued to grow. The sector has simply become too important for politicians at any level to ignore. 2. EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION Education has increasingly become a pocketbook issue as the share of women in the workforce has increased. Working parents need someone to care for their children, and given what we know about social and cognitive growth in the early years, publicly-funded early childhood education has many potential advantages. Meanwhile, federal policy has been remarkably stagnant, still rooted in LBJ-era policies like Head Start and federal tax credits. The issue is ripe for policy change and offers yet another reason for voters and presidential candidates to pay attention to education. Support for early childhood is very high in polls, with bipartisan appeal. 3. HIGHER EDUCATION The federal government has long played a significant, though quiet, role in funding colleges and universities with Pell Grants, student loans, and regulations. However, as student loan debt has skyrocketed, the federal government is a natural place to look for solutions. While more contentious than early childhood, many of these ideas also poll well across the political spectrum. 4. TIGHT STATE BUDGETS Education—especially any new programs addressing early childhood education and college affordability—requires resources, something in short supply at the state and local levels. Health care and pension benefits are taking on a larger and larger share of state spending. States have also shown a strong inclination to cut higher education first when budgets are tight. The federal government, with its borrowing power, almost has to be involved in any major spending effort. 5. INEQUALITY PROBLEMS Inequality is [a] real and fast-rising issue, and one of the key concerns among Democrats. Income inequality is partly caused by unequal educational opportunity (though not as much as some education advocates would have it). Early childhood education is also a factor in gender-based income inequality since child care and early education are central to allowing women—still the primary caregivers—to have equal access to opportunities in the labor market. 6. POLITICAL PRACTICALITY More so than other issues, because most people interact with public education in some way, education positions can be used to attract support from very specific constituencies. Want to attract younger voters? Promise more money for higher education, like free college and loan forgiveness. Want to attract African-Americans? Support for historically black colleges and universities. Want to attract rural voters? Create a rural education proposal. Want to attract women? Focus on early childhood education. Education is the Swiss army knife of policy and politics. 7. DIPLOMA AND GENDER DIVIDES In the early 2000s, voters with more formal education voted fairly equally for Democrats and Republicans. Not anymore—53% of college-educated white voters went for Democrats in 2018 compared with 37% of non-college-educated whites (I could not find the same numbers for people of color or the whole population). It stands to reason that voters with more formal education are especially likely to see education as an important policy issue. Education is also more of a pocketbook issue for women, who also vote disproportionately for Democrats. 8. BETSY DEVOS DeVos is one of the more reviled figures in what is, for Democrats, a highly reviled Trump administration. Her lack of experience in education (especially public schools), early glaring missteps (“guns and bears”?), and strong support for vouchers and online schooling, generally opposed by Democrats, make her an easy target for generic political attacks. (Not that it matters for purposes here, but her ideas also lack research support to recommend them.) For all of these reasons, education will be a major issue on the minds of Democratic voters. One poll has it among the top five issues for Democratic voters. Only health care beats it (and only slightly). This rising importance may also be long-lasting. The first seven factors above seem like structural changes, unlikely to shift with the political winds. Reinforcing this point, the candidates are coming out with major education policy proposals on an almost daily basis (more to come in later posts).

[analytic]