---
title: AC - Asian Americans
season: ld2019septoct
---

<div class="alert alert-warning mb-3">This case may contain a personal narrative when run.</div>

## FW: Structural Violence
The role of the judge should be to vote for the debater who best demonstratively resists structural violence.

#### Structural violence occurs when the structure of our society oppresses others. Thus, we must educate ourselves to think critically about structural oppression.
Farmer et al ’06 - [https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1621099/](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1621099/) 
> Structural violence, a term coined by Johan Galtung and by liberation theologians during the 1960s, describes social structures—economic, political, legal, religious, and cultural—that stop individuals, groups, and societies from reaching their full potential [57]. In its general usage, the word violence often conveys a physical image; however, according to Galtung, it is the “avoidable impairment of fundamental human needs or…the impairment of human life, which lowers the actual degree to which someone is able to meet their needs below that which would otherwise be possible” [58]. Structural violence is often embedded in longstanding “ubiquitous social structures, normalized by stable institutions and regular experience” [59]. Because they seem so ordinary in our ways of understanding the world, they appear almost invisible. Disparate access to resources, political power, education, health care, and legal standing are just a few examples. The idea of structural violence is linked very closely to social injustice and the social machinery of oppression [16].

#### We must solve structural violence first because we cannot form a coherent moral code if we are excluding others from our moral sphere.
Winter & Leighton '01 - [http://sites.saumag.edu/danaleighton/wp-content/uploads/sites/11/2015/09/SVintro-2.pdf](http://sites.saumag.edu/danaleighton/wp-content/uploads/sites/11/2015/09/SVintro-2.pdf)
> Finally, to recognize the operation of structural violence forces us to ask questions about how and why we tolerate it, questions which often have painful answers for the privi- leged elite who unconsciously support it. A final question of this section is how and why we allow ourselves to be so oblivious to structural violence. Susan Opotow offers an intriguing set of answers, in her article Social Injustice. She argues that our normal perceptual/cognitive processes divide people into in-groups and out-groups. Those outside our group lie outside our scope of justice. Injustice that would be instantane- ously confronted if it occurred to someone we love or know is barely noticed if it occurs to strangers or those who are invisible or irrelevant. We do not seem to be able to open our minds and our hearts to everyone, so we draw conceptual lines between those who are in and out of our moral circle. Those who fall outside are morally excluded, and be- come either invisible, or demeaned in some way so that we do not have to acknowledge the injustice they suffer. Moral exclusion is a human failing, but Opotow argues con- vincingly that it is an outcome of everyday social cognition. To reduce its nefarious effects, we must be vigilant in noticing and listening to oppressed, invisible, outsiders. Inclusionary thinking can be fostered by relationships, communication, and apprecia- tion of diversity.

## Sole contention: Standardized tests are a system which preys on and harms Asians

#### To most Asian Americans, tests like the SAT and ACT parallel the high-stakes standardized tests of East Asian culture. Thus, Asian communities are centered around maximizing standardized test scores for the purpose of moving up the social ladder.
Park 9/28/18 - [https://theconversation.com/test-prep-is-a-rite-of-passage-for-many-asian-americans-107244?utm_medium=Social&utm_source=Twitter#Echobox=1543441064](https://theconversation.com/test-prep-is-a-rite-of-passage-for-many-asian-americans-107244?utm_medium=Social&utm_source=Twitter#Echobox=1543441064) 
> When ACT released its latest test scores this past October, the results showed that average scores took a dip for every racial group in the United States except one – Asian-Americans. A similar situation played out with the SAT. Asian-Americans experienced a gain over the prior year – 42 points on a 1600-point scale – whereas other groups had more modest gains, no gains, or lost ground. The issue of Asian-Americans’ high test scores featured prominently in a pending legal case in which a group called Students for Fair Admissions – led by an activist who opposes the consideration of race in college admissions – alleges that Asian-Americans are discriminated against in Harvard College’s admission process. As a researcher who specializes in the study of Asian-Americans and higher education, I see three factors that help explain this trend around test scores. 1. Many Asian-American students are socialized into test prep As I document in my book, “Race on Campus,” many Asian-American students get frequent messages from an early age about the importance of doing well on tests. Test prep businesses may post an “honor roll” that features local youth and their elite college destinations. Relatives may stress that good test scores matter. These messages are powerful, as explained in the book “The Asian American Achievement Paradox.” They set up high expectations for Asian-American students. Test prep becomes a way of meeting those expectations. In many ways, these messages reflect the influence of East Asia, where college admission is decided on a single high-stakes test – such as China’s gaokao or South Korea’s suneung – and where intense test prep is a regular feature of teenage life. For that reason, many Asian immigrant parents see the SAT or ACT as the equivalent of Asia’s admissions tests. As a result, many conclude that test prep is a worthy investment. This helps explain why Asian-Americans, and in particular Chinese- and Korean-Americans – have the highest rate of participation in SAT/ACT test prep.

#### Performance on standardized tests fuels the self-perpetuating Asian “model minority” myth. We are viewed as studious, prosperous, and submissive in an act of ethnic containment.
Fukui ’18 - [https://www.theguardian.com/world/2018/jul/28/being-a-good-quiet-and-assimilated-model-minority-is-making-me-angry](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2018/jul/28/being-a-good-quiet-and-assimilated-model-minority-is-making-me-angry) 
> “Asians value education highly” is one of the many cultural traits attributed to us by the model-minority narrative. Here are some others: Asians have stable family backgrounds; Asians have a strong work ethic; Asians respect authority. Even Confucian virtues feature in this line-up, while other cultural-based explanations credit “tiger parenting” – those low-hovering mums and dads who advocate over-the-top methods in the pursuit of top results. Is there a grain of truth in all of the above? Perhaps. But here’s the problem: this mantra-ike trotting out of one-size-fit-all cultural traits not only ignores the historical, linguistic and ethnic diversity that is Asia but perpetuates a narrow essentialism that merely reinforces stereotypes. And in the “hyper-racialised” environment of selective schools, explains Christina Ho, a senior lecturer at University of Technology Sydney, such simplistic views can lead to “racialised hostility” – the kind that not only pits white people against Asians but also Asians against Asians. When I was at school back in the 70s in the relaxed, beach suburbs of Sydney’s north, there were fewer Asian migrants and education policy favoured encouraging all kids – overachievers as well as those needing support – to attend local comprehensive schools. I mention this not as a nostalgic aside but to highlight two key Australian policies – immigration and education – that circumscribe the dynamics of the Asian model-minority narrative, both of which have been hijacked by neoliberal thinking in the past 30 years. Esha is right. Asians do value education, but not because of some cultural predisposition. Our immigration policy cherry picks wealthier, skilled or business migrants who happen to come mostly from Asia for their potential to boost Australia’s economic interests. As newcomers with few established networks, they’re more likely to value education to ensure generational upward mobility. And many of these migrants tend to have higher levels of education, making them better equipped to decipher the maze of school choice, including analysing the Naplan results, explains Ho, who researches diversity and education. She also explains that these aspirational migrants are doing exactly what is expected of them: successfully navigating the increasingly competitive, hierarchical education system. And if Asian students dominate selective schools that’s a consequence of the policy decisions made by Australian governments. To invoke Asian-ness, as if our innate cultural buoyancy makes us float to the top like cream, is just mythical thinking. Like all myths though, the model-minority myth maintains traction because it’s useful. And the reasons why become clearer during my long conversation with Esha and Karen about education, identity, citizenship, multiculturalism. I ask them if they’d consider a future in politics and the discussion veers off into a sophisticated, intersectional analysis of the constraints of two-party politics. I’m in awe that they’d even consider the perils of high office, something I’ve never even fantasised about given that I hail from a country that once tried to invade Australia. But I’m dismayed when the topic of the “bamboo ceiling” comes up. We share our frustrations but we share no real solutions. Knowing that our aspirations have limits because our ethnicity precedes us is something we have in common as Asian-Australians. I suspect this kind of ethnic containment is the role the model-minority myth plays in today’s multicultural Australia. It keeps us confined to a set script we didn’t write, lest we acquire any uppity notions. We’re encouraged to work hard but not too hard, in case we end up dominating all the top schools. And we’re welcomed into Australia if we come with money but not too much money, in case we buy up big chunks of prime real estate. I’m reminded of a Japanese saying: a protruding nail gets hammered. I’m also reminded of a misogynist joke about men putting women on a pedestal so they can look up their skirts. I feel as though we’re being put on a pedestal as model citizens, only to be humiliated by being rendered inert and invisible.

#### This has four harms: first, it puts immense pressure on Asian students, making them dependent on a structurally oppressive system and disassociating us from our personal identity.
Wong et al ’98 - [https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/7f0a/d8efd5f49abc76dd6501db9b147111357669.pdf](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/7f0a/d8efd5f49abc76dd6501db9b147111357669.pdf) 
> Some studies revealed that the model minority image had a negative impact on Asian Americans’ psychological well-being (Shih 1989; Hartman and Askounis 1989; Ahn and Son 1991; Sue and Okazaki 1990). Sue and Zane (1985) showed that recent immigrant Chinese students were significantly less happy than both American born Chinese and early immigrant Chinese. They concluded that for recent immigrant students, academic excellence had the following academic and psychological costs: studying longer hours, taking fewer courses, enduring feeling of loneliness and isolation, restricting one’s career, and foregoing a social life in order to perform as well as other Chinese students. Leong’s study (1991) indicated that Asian American students’ career development and occupational values were significantly different from white American students. The findings showed that Asian American freshmen had developed less career maturity, were more dependent in decision-making styles, but they attached more values to occupational achievement than white American students.

#### Second, the model minority myth creates a “bamboo ceiling” in which Asians are discriminated against in upper areas of society.
Yin ’17 - [https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/25/magazine/asian-test-prep-centers-offer-parents-exactly-what-they-want-results.html](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/25/magazine/asian-test-prep-centers-offer-parents-exactly-what-they-want-results.html) 
> But as soon as I escaped the Bay Area and moved to the Midwest, I saw that being normal was never entirely possible for me, whether socially or professionally. “The Asian American Achievement Paradox” touches on this, too: Despite supposedly positive stereotypes of Asians, we still face what Lee calls a “bamboo ceiling,” keeping us from leadership positions and from recognition in more subjective career fields — which tend not to favor a demographic that lacks networking connections and has long been imagined to be uncreative or submissive. This, she says, is why some Asian immigrant parents view their children’s future through such narrow lenses. “In order for their kids to succeed as minorities,” she says, “having the right credentials, scoring well and getting into a top school can achieve mobility in a field where you might be less likely to experience discrimination.”

#### Third, this myth silences major racial issues impacting Asian Americans, including Southeast Asian poverty.
Kim ’18 - [https://blogs.brown.edu/ethn-1650b-s01-2018-fall/the-harmful-silencing-of-southeast-asian-americans/](https://blogs.brown.edu/ethn-1650b-s01-2018-fall/the-harmful-silencing-of-southeast-asian-americans/) 
> The genesis of conflating Southeast Asians into a false categorization of academic ease and widespread success with East Asians originates with the term ‘model minority.’ Model minority refers to the idea that Asian Americans are more likely to attain a greater level of success and socioeconomic status through their superiority in education. The term, while a myth, has been accepted by a large portion of Americans and has been normalized as part of the Asian American identity. This myth is used to disregard the needs of minorities who do not have adequate resources to achieve a successful education, and who underperform in the classroom. Through this myth, it is assumed that Asian Americans naturally succeed in the classroom and have the correct resources to do so. This is not true of the majority of Asian Americans. This is where portraying Asian Americans as a monolithic group greatly harms Southeast Asians. From purely a resource standpoint, Southeast Asians have long been at a disadvantage when it comes to educating their children and preparing them for college. According to AAPI data from 2017, Cambodian, Hmong, Laotian, and Vietnamese people are above the national poverty average.5 Cambodians almost double the national average of poverty rates, and Hmong more than double the rate. The United States Census Bureau has statistics stating that 38.5% of Cambodian, 39.6% of Hmong, and 34.3% of Laotian adults do not have a high school diploma. At the next level, 65.8% of Cambodian, 63.2 of Hmong, 63.2% of Laotian, and 51.1% of Vietnamese Americans have never attended college. It is not only unfair, but also inaccurate to group Southeast Asians into the model minority identity, where they are expected to be high achieving in high school, attend a top college, and succeed there. The statistics show that a significant portion of the Southeast Asian community lives in poverty, and a majority of the population has not attended college.

#### Finally, the most harmful effect of the model minority myth is its role as a “racial wedge,” in which discrimination against other minorities is justified.
Chow ’17 - [https://www.npr.org/sections/codeswitch/2017/04/19/524571669/model-minority-myth-again-used-as-a-racial-wedge-between-asians-and-blacks](https://www.npr.org/sections/codeswitch/2017/04/19/524571669/model-minority-myth-again-used-as-a-racial-wedge-between-asians-and-blacks) 
> Since the end of World War II, many white people have used Asian-Americans and their perceived collective success as a racial wedge. The effect? Minimizing the role racism plays in the persistent struggles of other racial/ethnic minority groups — especially black Americans. On Twitter, people took Sullivan's "old-fashioned rendering" to task. "During World War II, the media created the idea that the Japanese were rising up out of the ashes [after being held in incarceration camps] and proving that they had the right cultural stuff," said Claire Jean Kim, a professor at the University of California, Irvine. "And it was immediately a reflection on black people: Now why weren't black people making it, but Asians were?" These arguments falsely conflate anti-Asian racism with anti-black racism, according to Kim. "Racism that Asian-Americans have experienced is not what black people have experienced," Kim said. "Sullivan is right that Asians have faced various forms of discrimination, but never the systematic dehumanization that black people have faced during slavery and continue to face today." Asians have been barred from entering the U.S. and gaining citizenship and have been sent to incarceration camps, Kim pointed out, but all that is different than the segregation, police brutality and discrimination that African-Americans have endured. Many scholars have argued that some Asians only started to "make it" when the discrimination against them lessened — and only when it was politically convenient. Amid worries that the Chinese exclusion laws from the late 1800s would hurt an allyship with China in the war against imperial Japan, the Magnuson Act was signed in 1943, allowing 105 Chinese immigrants into the U.S. each year. As Wu wrote in 2014 in the Los Angeles Times, the Citizens Committee to Repeal Chinese Exclusion "strategically recast Chinese in its promotional materials as 'law-abiding, peace-loving, courteous people living quietly among us'" instead of the "'yellow peril' coolie hordes." In 1965, the National Immigration Act replaced the national-origins quota system with one that gave preference to immigrants with U.S. family relationships and certain skills.
